>> I'm Dave Hall.
I work on FxPlug in the Pro Aps team at Apple,
and, you know, since we introduced FxPlug at NAB,
the National Association of Broadcasters conference two
years ago, a lot of people have started writing FxPlugs,
and I'm really glad to see the -- the number that
have been coming out and the quality of them,
from camera manufacturers to more
traditional filter and transition developers.
At this session we're going to talk about, basically,
what the FxPlug SDK is, how you can write an FxPlug
and some new developments in FxPlug inside Final Cut Pro
and inside the FxPlug SDK itself and
with the new revision called 1.2.1.
Now FxPlug is a -- it's a new plug-in architecture that
we created so that we could add new features rather
than just hosting plug-ins written with other architectures.
And at first the -- the host application
that supported FxPlug was Motion 2.0.
Since then last year we introduced FxPlug
support in Final Cut Pro and the FxPlugs
that you can write can be based on
-- they're based on Objective-C.
You can use C in your rendering
functions, a lot of people do.
You can use OpenGL and other Apple frameworks.
One really attractive thing about writing FxPlugs is
the large user base, there are 800,000 registered users
of Motion Final Cut, and they all use Fx.
Another thing is that the effects that you write
as FxPlugs can have really great performance
and that's due to our use of OpenGL.
It's due to the universal binaries, and you can also
have custom UI, both in the inspector window in the apps
where you can make a control that looks
however you want it to, or you can --
you can do on-screen controls where you
draw controls directly onto the canvas
and those run in Motion and those are based on OpenGL.
In the last version last year we introduced RGBA --
or we had RGBA but we introduced YUV plus alpha pixels
and floating point pixels have been in there from the
start which is a great way to get really good quality and,
finally, in this -- in this latest release,
Motion 3, we've added 3D to the ap=plication.
So we've added a little bit of 3D interface to= the FxPlug
SDK so you can access the camera and layer transforms.
So the first thing I want to talk about is how you
write an FxPlug plug-in and there're five basic steps,
and I know it's going to sound
ridiculously simple but, of course,
there's a lot more to these than these three words each.
You initiate a template in Xcode to make
an FxPlug filter transition or generator.
You create unique IDs so that we can tell
one plug-in from another and then, of course,
you customize the source code which is the real work.
You build an install and you test, and we'll go
through each one of these steps in more depth now.
So, when you select an Xcode template,
you get the list and the three
that we've added: FxPlug filter, generator and transition.
In this example we're selecting the filter.
You give it a name and what you'll see is a very simple
project that has two source files and some resources.
It's just a .M and a .H. this is for the filter, for the
generator you'll see a .MMs, we've used Objective-C++
but it will look very similar to this and the
Info P list in there is -- is interesting, too.
We'll show you a little bit about that.
Now just dive into the Info P list and the first thing
you'll want to do is create the unique IDs, and you can --
you'll find comments in the -- in the Info.P
list but you can also just look for a UUID,
and you'll find three of them, one of them is the
ID for the group that your plug-in belongs to,
the category name like blurs or, your company name or
wherever you want it to go, and you'll generate a UUID
which you can use -- you can use the terminal genUUID or
UUIDgen, but I'll also show you a way to automate that,
makes it much easier so you can use a keystroke.
Then that group UUID appears twice, there's
the one where you're defining the group
and later where you define your plug-in you state which
group it belongs to, so you'll copy that UUID and put it
in the plug-in descriptor, and then there's a UUID for
the plug-in itself and you give that a separate unique ID.
So here's how you can create a script that
goes into Xcode so you can have a key stroke.
In this case you can see it says @dollarU that means
command shift U. So you select one of those UUIDs,
press this keystroke if you have this
installed, and it will replace your -- the --
the UUID from the template with yours and don't bother to
write it down, it's all in the SDK, in the documentation.
So, again, you'll see the comments in there,
just look for those, make the change in the UUID
and then customizing the source codes two -- two main things
there's a parameter list that the samples will define,
and you'll change that to be your own parameters, and you'll
change the render method and those are the very basics
and there's a lot more that you can do in a plug-in
but that's what's going -- going to create your --
your first effect and the render
methods you can write one or two.
You can either do CPU rendering or GPU rendering or both.
Then, when you build your project,
you'll want to install the --
the product into library plug-ins FxPlug either
from the root domain or your user domain,
and then you want to be able to debug and -- and so
there're a few different things that we -- we do.
One of them is to change the build
location to directly write into the --
into the target folder by making a script command.
What I usually do is just go into terminal like this
and make a -- a symbolic link to point to the --
to the build product directory, and
then test in Motion and Final Cut.
In the case where we built this my filter example it'll
show up in the browsers of either Ap as shown there.
Now I'd like to have -- I'd like to introduce Vijay
Sundaram to talk a little bit
about how FxPlugs work in Final Cut
and what's new in that space, Vijay.
>> Thank you, Dave.
Hello, everyone --
( Applause )
Is that for me or for Dave?
Thank you and welcome to the introduction to FxPlug session.
We introduced support for FxPlug within Final Cut Pro at
WWDC 2006 and since t hen we have continued to make a lot --
a number of enhancements to the application as we
continue to support new APIs in the FxPlug API model.
As Dave mentioned a number of developers
have now started using this.
So I thought we'll first of all go through some of
the salient features that we've introduced inside
of Final Cut Pro for the 1.21 version of the API.
First off is hidden, and disable and
not animatable parameter support.
This will allow you to be able to create new
and different controls for your plug-ins.
Support for parameters groups basically allows you to create
your plug-ins with controls that can be grouped together
in logical units giving a seamless
interface to your customers.
FX parameter setting API, it allows you
to create presets for your plug-ins.
So, for example, if your user -- if you have a pop-up menu
for one of your controls and the user makes a selection,
you can prepopulate some of the other controls and enable
or disable them and provide those default values to them.
Parameter sampling at arbitrary times allows the plug-in
to get Keyframe parameter values at arbitrary times,
and you can then support Keyframing inside your plug-in.
Move to next slide.
So because Final Cut Studio comes as a box and
Final Cut Pro and Motion are in the same box,
there is a very high probability that your
plug-in will be used in both applications.
There's some caveats to remember when you target
your plug-in for each one of these applications,
and I thought I'll take a little
time and go over some of the things
to remember especially when you're targeting Final Cut Pro.
On-screen controls, on-screen controls are
very powerful technology inside of Motion,
unfortunately not supported in Final Cut Pro.
So if you were making your plug-ins
with a number of on-screen controls,
please remember that you provide equivalent controls
and parameters inside of Final Cut Pro so that your user
when he switches between these two
applications will be able to use your plug-in
and get a better benefit from your plug-in basically.
Software rendering is preferred for Final Cut
Pro and there's a couple reasons over here.
Motion prefers hardware rendering and
Final Cut Pro prefers software rendering.
The reason in Final Cut Pro is that Final Cut Pro users tend
to go between the tower machines and Mac Pro machines so,
if you are targeting the GPU and looking for certain
features in the GPU, when they move their projects
from these high-end machines down to the Mac Pros,
they may not have equivalent functionality in the GPU.
Also because in Final Cut Pro we'll be
using the resulting images for other effects
or if an external monitor is connected to it, we will read
the pixels back from the GPU which can effect performance
and not give the same amount of flow that
the user will be expecting in the plug-ins.
So, if possible it would be better for you
to create two paths, software and hardware.
Native YUV support is important inside of Final Cut Pro
because Final Cut Pro is basically a video editing engine.
R408 which is our 8-bit YUV color space is the native
color space for preview so, when the user hits playback
and that's the color space that we use
and R4FL is a 30-bit float YU space,
and it's preferable to support
these two color space parameters
for two reasons, again, one is for performance reasons.
You don't want to convert between the different color spaces
and two to prevent clamping when
you go between these color spaces.
So keeping fidelity and quality and not
losing your super white and super blacks.
There are two modes in Final Cut Pro, Safe RT
and Unlimited RT and, when I go to my demo,
I'll actually show you what this means a little
bit so that you can actually see in action,
but SafeRT guarantees that we will always playback
without dropping frames, and this is easy for us to do
for internal plug-ins because we actually profile these
plug-ins and then we can show the user whether it's playable
in RT or not by giving them either a red
or green bar over the particular segment,
but this is not possible for third-party effects.
So how can you take advantage of something similar?
The user can switch from Safe RT to Unlimited RT.
When they do this, they get the same functionality as
an internal plug-in except that we do not guarantee
that there will be no dropped frames but this is a very
useful mode for the user to work with in your plug-in
so that they can change the parameters and get instant
feedback and even play it back and get preview.
So to be able to support your playback in
realtime the first two points would be --
would be something to consider so that you
can give them the same amount of functionality
when they switch from Safe RT down to Unlimited RT.
Finally, paying attention to pixel aspect ratio there is
a -- there is a -- there is a bigger thing to remember,
one of the interesting technology inside
of Final Cut is what we call Dynamic RT.
The concept of Dynamic RT basically says that we will try
and keep playback constant at the best quality possible.
Depending on the runtime conditions we
will scale back the quality of the --
of the image and the way we do this is we basically send a
hint down to the Kodak and ask it to go from high quality
down to say medium quality, and if there's
resources available, go back up to high quality
and the implementation detail is left up the Kodak
so the Kodak can give you a scaled image back
or a single field back, so you should be able to look at the
parameters that get passed down to you in Render Info.scale
and Image Dimensions to make sure that you are not
expecting always a certain behavior but your --
that your plug-in adapts to the values that get passed down
to you and puts out the output frame that is full frame.
Another part about this is that because we can send
you an interlaced field or a single field unlike Motion
which will actually align double and give you
a full frame, so this is a thing to remember
when you are targeting these two
applications as to what the behavior is
and then pixel aspect ratio becomes important
because, if you're passing down a single field,
you will get a pixel aspect ratio, for example, in the case
of DV of 0.4 where as, if you are passing down a full frame,
you will get a pixel aspect ratio of 0.8.
It's something to consider when you are targeting Final
Cut Pro and finally as Dave mentioned, test, test, test.
Test in both applications to make sure that your
plug-in works correctly in both of these applications
and that the result in output is correct.
I'd like to switch over to my demo.
If I could switch to the demo machine, please.
Sorry, gets dry out here.
Couple things I want to show you in the demo is,
first of all the sample plug-in that actually comes
with the FxPlug SDK, the first
plug-in is what we call SimpleMatte,
and it allows basically shows you how you can
create custom UI parameters for your controls.
So, if you follow Dave's steps and do the right thing,
you will see that your plug-in
will show up under certain groups.
So there are basically three types of plug-ins that
you can create, filters, transitions and generators
and all three are supported inside of Final Cut Pro,
and your company name will probably be
the group, in this case, it's Examples.
You -- so in this particular case you will
apply the SimpleMatte plug-in to the clip,
you see there's an NS view that's been created here and the
user can paint around it and create a matte effect for --
for -- in your plug-in so it's a good example
to be able to understand what's the best way
to go ahead and create custom UI controls.
One point I quickly -- before I go to my
next plug-in this is what I was talking
about with the respect to SafeRT and UnlimitedRT.
As you can see over here if I switch this from UnlimitedRT
down to SafeRT that particular filter segment went red,
which means it's in RT because we didn't profile it and
this is what's going to happen to your third-party plug-in.
So, if you -- if the user switches off from
SafeRT to UnlimitedRT, it will go orange
and they can actually play it back and get
equivalent performance as though it were
in SafeRT although we don't guarantee that you won't
drop frames in playback and as you can see below
that is DynamicRT in the three modes,
so you can force -- for your testing --
you can actually force the mode to be high,
medium or low and make sure that all three
of these modes are supported correctly so that
when then the user actually is in dynamic mode
and it switches during runtime, the right things
will take place with respect to your plug-in.
Now, since -- since the last time we introduced -- since the
last year when we introduced FxPlug inside of Final Cut Pro,
we have seen a number of users actually move to the Mac
platform or even people who've written other filters
who are interested in targeting
Final Cut Pro using the FxPlug API.
To be able to learn the FxPlug APIs you
can actually take advantage of a lot
of interesting technologies within
the Mac Operating System itself.
There's Quartz Composer, Core Image, the Image, Image IO a
number of these very powerful technologies that you can use
as your image processing engine, so that you
can start playing and learning the FxPlug APIs
without necessarily having to import any of
your previous plug-ins from another platform.
The example over here is a simple Core Image filter.
I will switch this one out and apply this filter.
It exposes one single parameter which is exposure, CI
actually provides a number of interesting filters for you,
and all I've done over here is pick one of
the filters which is the exposure CI filter,
and I'm asking that technology's CI
to actually do the rendering for me.
I'm exposing the parameter up to Final Cut in this
case through the exposure parameter and as you can see,
when I scrub her out, CI is actually
doing the image processing for me.
So you can use technologies inside of the Mac Operating
System to be, one able to learn quickly the FxPlug APIs
and two probably even use those technologies as part
of your -- of your plug-in and to demonstrate my point,
we've actually had the good fortune of getting Noise
Industries to provide us with some of their plug-ins,
and I'd like to be able to demonstrate
the Noise Industry filter.
So, if you go up to effects and video filters, you can
see that there's a number of filters that they provide
which can be used inside of Final Cut Pro.
So let me apply Sobel Edge.
As you can see it applies the edge
detection filter and it works great.
So what's interesting about this is, let's say that
your users typically apply the Sobel Edge filter
and then they want to do a two-tone color effect,
typically they would apply this first filter
and then they would apply the second filter.
So how can we change this work, how can you make
it a little bit different and this is the problem
that Noise Industries has -- has
solved using technologies inside
of the Mac Operating System and
exposing them through FxPlug.
So a quick Final Cut Pro here, and bring up the FxFactory
application, so as you can see this FxFactory Pro Pack
and you can open the Pro Pack and
take a look at all the plug-ins.
As you can see all the groups are over
here and under stylized you see Sobel Edge
and you can see all the parameters that
it exposed inside of Final Cut Pro.
So we were talking about how we can add
two-tone color effect to this without, you know,
writing another piece of code, so this particular
plug-in actually uses Quartz Compositions and,
if you hit the edit button, it
actually brings up the Quartz Composer.
Quartz Composer is a technology inside of the Mac Operating
System, and it's available to every -- every -- it's --
it's available in every single version of the software --
of the operator system, and you can use Quartz Composer
to create node-based edits where you basically create
patches and wire them up and create interesting images.
So in this particular case, if you wanted to take a look
at what the Sobel Edge filter looks
like, you can see that there's an input.
This input would typically come
from Final Cut Pro or Motion.
It goes through a clamp, does the edge
detection, gets cropped and sent --
and the output is sent out and which comes back to
Final Cut Pro or Motion and it would get rendered up.
So our initial objective was to be able to add
a two-tone color effect, how do we do this?
Now the same Core Image that I was talking
about in the earlier demo actually provides
you with a patch called false color.
It's very simply put we drag it across and as you
can see it's got two parameters Color 1 and Color 2
which would effect the colors of -- of the image.
You can rewire this by breaking the connection over here --
oh, actually not here, but breaking the connection over here
to the image and then adding this connection back down here
and as you can see it actually
applied a two-tone color effect.
Now that's interesting because you've been able to quickly
add a new color but how do you expose the parameters Color 1
and Color 2 so that inside of Motion and
Final Cut Pro you can do the same thing?
Quartz Composer actually allows you to publish your inputs
and outputs, so in this particular case I will go ahead
and publish the input Color 1, call it Color 1 and publish
input Color 2 and call it Color 2 and that's about it.
Now I go and save this and apply changes over
here and as you can see FxFactory has updated
and shows you the two parameters Color 1 and Color 2.
Great. Now we quit this, save the filter, bring up Final
Cut Pro -- takes a minute, and we look for the filter,
stylize Sobel Edge and there you go, you've
now been able to add two new parameters
and a filter to your plug-in without any programs.
So this is a very powerful technology and you
should be able to take advantage of things like this
when you create your plug-ins and
give your users new and different ways
of being able to create effects for themselves.
That concludes my demo.
I shall return it back to Dave, and
I hope you guys have a great session.
Thank you.
( Applause )
>> Thanks Vijay.
Now let's actually dive into the FxPlug
SDK a little bit and talk about the APIs.
An FxPlug is a form of Pro Plug.
If you went to the aperture export SDK session earlier --
I think it was yesterday, you learned about another form
of Pro Plug the aperture exporter Pro Plug and Pro Plug in
turn is a flavor of the NS bundle architecture from Apple.
With the NS bundle is a pretty generic way of wrapping
up a plug-in and Pro Plug is a little bit more specific
and FxPlug is an instance and the way that
Pro Plug works is that plug-in classes
that you implement conform to protocols defined by the SDK.
So, for example, FxFilter is the
protocol that you would conform to.
You'd implement all the functions -- the methods
in that protocol in order to implement a plug-in
and the host application, Motion or Final Cut,
provides objects that conform to host API protocols.
So between the two the -- the two -- the
Ap and the plug-in are able to communicate.
Now within the plug-in manager framework which is where
Pro Plugs are hosted we use the Objective C protocols
and most of you who've gone to sessions
here know that some who are new --
who are plug-in developers but not necessarily Mac
programers from way back would just need to know
that there's similar to C++, mix-in inheritance or
Java interfaces and one thing a little more arcane
that we make use of about protocols is that they are
able to inherit from parent protocols so, for example,
if you have a parent protocol that defines method one
and a child protocol that inherits from the parent
but defines method two, you end up with the
child protocol implicitly defining both methods.
So, if you are going to conform to child protocol,
you need to implement both of those two methods.
Now, when you define your parameters in an FxPlug,
you do that by implementing one method that is --
as part of the FxBase effect protocol that's the parent
protocol for the filter, generator and transitions.
So one of the methods in that protocol is the add
parameters and in your add parameters method you define each
of your parameters one by one which
adds them to the list, top to bottom,
and you use methods in a host API
called FxParameter Creation API to --
to tell the application to add
each parameter to your plug-in.
So in this case we add a float slider and a
point parameter, and we'll talk about now each
of the different parameter types, there's a floating
point slider and an integer slider which is the same
but truncated, check box or toggle button an
angle slider which can go beyond 360 degrees
and goes counterclockwise, this
is an RGB color and an ARGB color.
I'll just note that the alpha RGB color is not currently
supported in Final Cut but you can -- if you need that --
if you need the alpha channel in a color control, you
can implement that by adding a slider for the alpha,
for example, in the -- in your
parameter list when you sense that the --
the host is Final Cut, and we have an API for telling
you what the host is or you could use a custom control
if you want and 2D points are -interesting because
they're sort of a composite parameter type.
They have the X and Y part and there are a couple of
others that are composite including the RGB and RGBA.
2D point is also interesting because it implicitly defines
an on-screen control which I'll show you in a moment,
a pop-up menu where you define strings
for each menu item, an image well which --
into which a user can drag an image or -- or
other piece of medium and a custom control --
custom controls I'll talk about in more detail but it's
basically any NS view that you assign to a custom control,
a group parameter which contains
other parameters and a couple
of more esoteric ones which are the histogram and gradient.
Now, when you get values from a parameter, you use the
FxParameter Retrieval API, another host API protocol,
and you can see there are methods with names
like Get Float Value and Get Int Value and so on
and similarly there's an FxParameter setting
API for setting the values of parameters.
You'll use this one less often
but you might use it, for example,
if one parameter state effects
the values of other parameters.
You might have a check box that once -- if it says
limit values to from zero to hundred in some slider,
so when that's checked when you're notified
that it's checked through a change parameter --
a parameter change method you can then
set the values to clamp to those ranges.
Now, when you make a custom parameter
UI, you define an NS view.
You can assign this to a custom parameter that has
some type that you define or you can assign it to any
of the standard parameters so you -- you may
not like our interface for a point parameter
or want to do something more interesting with
it, you can make it look the way you want.
The custom view you define will be placed in the inspector,
and it is resizable so you should
make it respond correctly as resized.
In theory it's resizable but that doesn't mean the
host applications will actually let you resize them,
and you can use any subclass of NS view and
you can make that inside Interface Builder
or you can create it programatically through your code.
In order to assign an NS view to a parameter,
custom or standard, you use the normal method
for creating the parameter but then you set one flag called
the KFxParameter Flag Custom UI and, when that flag is set,
the host application will call a method that you implement
that's part of the FxCustom Parameter View Host Protocol
that method is a create view for parm and in that
you simply create an NS view, return that NS view,
you can retrieve it from your NIB or you can
create it right there as you see in the example.
When you get an event, you get it the same
way that any other NS view would get it.
You -- you override the methods in NS view
and NS responder and you get mouse button --
a mouse button events, you get scroll wheel
events and tablet, angles and eraser events
or whatever it is that you want to handle.
You can have contextual menus as well so that when
-- when somebody right clicks on part of your view,
you can bring up a pop-up menu and the controller for
your view can also change parameter values as I mentioned,
and you can also change the state of other parameters,
so you can hide other parameters, your check box that --
that effects other parameters might be one that -- that
hides a whole group and so in your method that tells you
that the parameter value has changed in this case the check
boxes value you can hide or show other parameters and,
when you change a value or state to access parameters in
general you need to use the FxCustom Parameter Action API.
The action API gives you two -- two methods that
let you enter and exit the mode you need to be
in to access parameters, so this is
start action and end action very simple.
Also because you're not called by one of
our methods here you're called by the OS,
you need to find out what the current time
is, because, whenever you access parameters,
you say give me the parameter value at this time.
So you call an action API method
called current time to get that.
Now, in addition to custom parameters -- custom
parameter UI there are also custom parameter types,
and it can be any type that conforms to NS coding.
I'll talk about that in a moment but, when you
add a custom parameter to your list of parameters,
use the add custom parameter with name method and
give it a default value which is of the -- it's --
it's an instance of the class that
you're using for your default values
but also set the not animatable in the custom UI flag.
The not animatable flag is needed
because our Aps don't support Keyframing
or animating the -- the values of custom parameters.
Some plug-ins have simulated this by making a custom
view with its own timeline, but it's a bit of work.
In general we don't explicitly
support animatable custom parameters.
Another thing is that a custom parameter
-- the class that it -- that it -- that --
that its values belong to like as I
said have to conform to NS coding.
Now in previous versions of our host applications you've --
you've had to use keyed coding which was a little
more complex not much but you needed to do that
or else your custom parameters wouldn't
actually work and that's changed now.
You can use any class that implements NS coding like an
NS array conforms to NS coding as long as all the members
of the array conform to NS coding;
NS string conforms as well.
In -- in the examples plug-in that we have, the two of
them, the SimpleMatte and SimplePaint we've defined a class
that uses keyed coding and introduces a
whole new class just for an array of points.
As an exercise to the reader, you could throw away
that whole class and just use NS array, but --
but you would still need to use this more complicated
method if you wanted to support older host applications.
Now when you render you render into an Fx image, the --
the images that you get through a
parameter well are also images --
Fx images and those that you get as an input to either a --
an Fx filter or an Fx transition are
Fx images and that's the base class.
The two child classes we have of
that are FxTexture and FxBit map.
FxTexture corresponds to an OpenGL P-buffer
and Fx bit map is a RAM based bit map image.
The pixel formats that we support are alpha
with RGB and there are three forms of that,
there's the 8-bit integer ARGB, the 16-bit
float ARGB which is only used on the GPU and --
so, if you're doing a software only render method, you
don't need to worry about that format just support the 8
and the 32 and you may also do
YUV and the 32-bit float ARGB.
The byte ordering is defined by a method in the
Fx image class, so you can find out what the --
the ordering of those components are -- is,
and YUV or YCBCR images are in two formats,
one of them is the R408 8-bit form which is defined on
our website this link is in the FxPlug documentation,
but it's one of the old ice -- ice flow letter number 19
defines R408 as well as a bunch of other interesting things
and the 32-bit float version of that which is the
same thing but instead of 8-bit values it's float
and the big thing there is that the floating point values
can go out of range so that you don't have clamping.
So it's optional to support the YUV formats.
You'll get better performance in Final
Cut in some cases if you do support them.
They also -- an interesting thing about
them is they do use premultiplied alpha
in the YUV format as well as in the RGB formats.
Now, when you're using textures or P-buffers as inputs
and outputs, you just ask for the coordinate system
from the texture itself and our Fx textures
are a very thin wrapper for OpenGL textures.
You can do the normal OpenGL operations with them.
You use binds and enable and you can get their texture ID
and again they're premultipled just as our bitmaps are.
We also support retiming of parameters
as well as -- as images.
With parameters it's easy, whenever you get the value of a
parameter or set the value of parameter, you pass a time.
So it's explicitly supported.
We added a new proto -- protocol for getting images at
some specified time and that's the Fx temporal image API
and in the more recent version we've
added Fx temporal transition --
temporal transition image API which let's
you get transition inputs at some other time.
We also added in FxPlug 1.2 methods for getting
information about the timing of your effect,
about the clip that it's applied to, about the
timeline that it's on and that's the Fx timing API.
We'll talk more about that in the advanced session
this afternoon, but it's a way of finding out the start
and end -- or start time and duration
of these different entities of the --
you can find out the frame rate
and so on, in and out points.
When you use retiming the Fx timing API protocol to get
images at some time, you can get them in four formats:
They can be filtered or unfiltered,
they can be textured or --
textures or bitmaps and so we have four very similar methods
for getting images in any one of those types and Fx the --
the temporal API for getting transition
images is -- is similar.
Now our on-screen controls are
implemented as another plug-in.
It's a way of drawing custom controls in the canvas.
On-screen controls like our custom parameters
aren't Keyframed things, they're not really --
they don't even have -- they're
not associated with parameters.
It's just a control from whose methods you
can set parameter values inside your plug-in.
So, in general, it's a -- it's a way of drawing
custom controls in the canvas and a simple instance
of an on-screen control is the built-in point parameter
and there are slightly more complex examples you can see
and one of them is in the kaleidoscope filter
where there's an angle, an arc control.
On-screen controls are -- are Motion only
and as Vijay pointed out you should --
you should provide alternate methods for
controlling parameters that are controlled by --
by the on-screen controls so that when Final Cut hosts
your plug-in, you'll be able to control those parameters.
You draw your on-screen controls using OpenGL and they're
composited directly over the window in the canvas,
and you can use different drawing
coordinates depending on what you're drawing,
one or the others might make more sense, there
is object window and document coordinate systems.
You should use anti-aliasing.
You get the usual mouse and keyboard events,
they're not through NS events or NS responders.
We have our own methods for letting you know
that an event has happened in on-screen controls
because we're sensing the -- the region that was
clicked on or the part of your control using OpenGL
and you can set parameter values
based on the events that you see.
So in order for us to know what parts
of your controls have been clicked on,
you need to draw your controls a
second time using the GL select mode.
It -- using that mode you define a number, an
index for the part that you're about to draw.
You draw that part not using anti-aliasing and not using
any textures but other than that just as you draw it
when you're drawing your controls, it's probably the
same method and each part you give a different ID and,
when we see that a click happens, OpenGL
tells us which part was clicked on.
So this is very fast.
In FxPlug 1.2.1 we've introduced a lot of new concepts,
and I'm going to group the new additions to 1.2 with 1.2.1
since they've both been added since the last WWDC, but they
correspond with the Motion 3 and Final Cut 6 applications
and with a future application so -- a future version, so
some of these things are not yet defined or supported,
but I'll -- I'll let you know which ones of those they are.
When the FxPlug 1.2.1 SDK is downloadable
which will be soon, all of this will be clear.
The Fx versioning API is new this is really useful
for a plug-in that has already released a 1.0 version
and now they want to release a 2.0 and they,
you know, in some cases these changes are easy.
If you just add a new parameter, the host
applications will pretty much do the right thing.
We'll say look there's a new parameter
-- or I'm sorry, if you create --
if your user creates a project using your 1.0 version,
saves it and then opens it up again in version 2.0,
we need to know what to do and, if you've just added
a new parameter, the host application will say, well,
look there's no -- there's no values saved for this
new parameter, so we used the default values defined
by the plug-in when it created the parameter, and we'll just
add the default value in unanimated for each new parameter
and deleted or removed parameter similarly it's
pretty easy to handle but what's harder for us to --
to handle is, if you've just changed
the way you've rendered,
maybe you've fixed a bug maybe the output
of your render was -- was too bright.
So in 2.0 you've fixed that and you've darkened it a
bit but what you don't want to have happen is users
who use the bright version worked around
that bug by applying a darken filter and now,
when they open up your projects
using your new plug-in version,
you don't want to have them seeing an extra dark version.
So we -- we have the Fx versioning API which let's you
find out the version that a project was saved in --
I'm sorry, that a project was created in.
As you save subsequently those
and the version will be the same.
They'll still have the old version.
We've added a 3D API for getti=ng the camera and
layer transforms and focal lengths in Motion,
the timing API I mentioned, the Fx Progress API let's
you report progress on a long render periodically
and let's you sense when the user has canceled a long
render, and we've added more examples to the FxPlug-in SDK
and also improved the support in the host applications.
Okay. So the Fx versioning API, you make this work
by defining a new key in your Info.P list file,
and it's called version, and you
can give it any index you want.
It might be an index starting with
1, it might be something else.
And as I said we -- we remember
the version that your plug-in --
the version of your plug-in that was used when your
project was created, and you can find out the version
of a project that's been opened by looking at the
version at creation method in the Fx versioning API.
They will let you handle backward compatibility.
You might add a control letting the user decide
whether they want to render the old way or new way
or do some special thing that you
-- that you think is right.
We don't handle that automatically.
We leave it up to you because in some cases
it might make sense, in some it might not.
The 3D API is Motion only and has four methods.
You can -- you can find out the camera matrix at transform
at time which returns a 4x4 3D camera transform matrix
and layer matrix at time tells you the transform that's
been applied to the layer to which your plug-in is applied.
You can also find the camera's focal length and you
can just query to find out whether a layer is 3D.
The timing API has timing information about a clip including
the image inputs for a filter or transition plug-in
and for image wells and you can find out the
start time and duration and the field order.
For effect timing you can get the times in and out points of
-- of a clip to which your -- your plug-in has been applied.
You can get the start time and duration like
you can through your clip and the frame rate
and there's also a time conversion
methods for going between one
of these different times and another
-- one of these time scales.
The progress API is really only useful for a plug-in
that does a fairly slow render but, if you do,
it's really essential and the main thing you use is that
the user has cancelled and you just check that periodically
to find out if the user has tried to cancel your render.
You don't need to return an error when
you've been canceled, just abort and return.
There's another matter for updating your progress and in
theory putting an interesting number in the progress bar
which is not yet supported but it's
good to implement just in case.
FxPlug 1.2 introduces four new
examples, previously we had the --
or in 1.2 and earlier we had SimpleMatte and SimplePaint
showing you how to implement a custom control view
and on-screen control, but it's not enough, so we've added
one showing how to use the progress cancellation method
in Fx methods in the Fx progress
API that's called slow solid color.
It's a very simple plug-in that just very slowly
renders, an options dialogue, an example is, again,
a very simple one that just puts a custom push button
in the parameter list and, when the user clicks on that,
it brings up a panel with information and there's a
directional blur example which is more complicated
and shows a lot of different -- different concepts.
In particular there's P-buffers and how to handle
the capabilities of a machine for different kind
of OpenGL features and something called effect
helpers which has all sorts of useful goodies.
We'll talk about the directional blur example at the
advanced session this afternoon, so I encourage you to come
and hear about that and also there's a scrolling rich
text example which, again, has lots of different concepts
and there's a great reference when you're writing a -- a
plug-in that uses some concepts that weren't defined before
but we have now -- shows you how to handle pixel
aspect ratio, gives you a control to turn on
or off correct handling of pixel aspect and same thing
for -- for field rendering and shows you how to hide
and show parameters dynamically and other concepts as well.
For more information about the FxPlug SDK we have a mail
list, and I encourage everybody to sign up for this.
It's the best way to talk with other plug-in developers as
well as with Apple engineering, and it's called Pro-Aps-Dev
and the standard Apple mail lists
sign up you'll see that listed.
We also have an a mail -- a mail group within Apple
but just a few -- a few Apple engineers read and,
if you've got something confidential that you
want to talk about, you can use that mail address
but really you get the best results from
Pro-Aps-Dev, the pressure of having everybody else see
that we've been asked a question is really
is good for getting us to answer quickly.
The plug-in SDK -- the FxPlug SDK is
available from connect.apple.com, just sign in,
look in applications and you'll see FxPlug.
When the new version is -- is up there, you'll
see it in the what's new or new editions section
and there's also other documentation
including something for porting your plug-ins
from other plug-in architectures up on the attendee URL.
We've a lab open today at the Graphics and
Media Lab downstairs from 2:00 to 6:15, however,
at the beginning of that we also have a
session about advanced FxPlug development.
So, if you want to talk about FxPlugs, don't go to the
lab looking for us we'll be up here, same room but,
if you want to talk about the aperture, export
SDK or XML workflows in Final Cut, then --
then that's the place to be, but we'll
also be down there after this session.
It's the advanced session is from 2:00 to 3:15 in this room.
So to summarize, we've added a bunch of new features
in FxPlug 1.2 and 1.21, and they are, again, retiming,
3D in Motion, progress and cancellation, plug-in versioning,
timing improvements, improved consistency of plug-in hosting
and bug fixes and enhancements and
the examples that we talked about.
So, please join the mail list.